The image upload is working our images here, but now I want easy to use u r l which we can store here
in our users collection and which we can then use in our message bubble to show the image of a user
who sent a message.
Now, getting such a URL is thankfully very, very easy.
Once we uploaded this, we can use our ref here again.
And on the ref you can call, get download URL and this returns a future or it gives you a future that
will actually retrieve a long lift u URL which is usable by anyone who has that URL to view that image.
And that's great because that means that in the future we don't have to use the Firebase Storage package
to scan through all our files and find the file for a specific user.
Instead, we can just store a direct link to the image for every user.
So let's await this.
We should get the u url here in the end, once this resolved so that you are less than what I want to
store here.
In my users collection, so I stored a file with Firebase Storage.
But in my extra user data, I store a pointer, a URL to that file.
So image you are all here.
Can just be that your URL which we're getting with get download URL.
And this hopefully does the trick.
If we save this and we try this one more time, if I log out and we create a brand new account.
With some valid data.
Here we add an image.
And click sign up.
The sign up process.
Is active and eventually finishes.
And if we now go back to the Firebase Web console.
To the database.
And to users.
You see that I have this image URL for the user I just added and if we grab that URL and enter it in
the browser, it loads this image.
So that's a direct URL to that image, which is great because that means we cannot always use that URL
to load and preview this image.
We don't have to use the Firebase Storage SDK to kind of scan all files.
Now, one thing you might also notice, though, is that on storage you see that the files are relatively
large here, around 200 kilobytes.
And if you're using a high resolution camera, that might be even bigger.
And that's way too big for an image, which I'll just show here next to the chat message.
I don't need such a huge image here.
So in order to save storage and in order to make sure that this all loads and uploads fast, I actually
will go back to the user image picker where we call pick image on the image picker package.
And besides the source, we can for example, also set the image quality here and set us to 50.
It should be a value between zero and 100 and I'll set it to 50, which is a way worse quality but should
still be good enough.
We can also set a max width and height here to ensure that this is not too large.
And since I only need a tiny image, I'll set the max width to 150.
So this should not actually give us a much smaller image, which is way faster to upload and way smaller
to store.
So if we give that a try, we log out and create yet another new user.
You're.
Let's take an image.
If I now sign up, you see, that is faster.
It doesn't take as long to upload.
And we also see it here.
If I reload, the other images have around 200 kilobytes.
This image has just three kilobytes.
And of course it has a worse quality, but that should be fine.
And we can always find you this later, but we certainly don't need the high resolution, super large
image if we're just going to use a tiny image here.
Now, that's the next point, though.
I want to make sure we do display the image here.
And for that, I will actually clear all my images I currently have here.
So that we start from scratch.
And it will also clear all the database data.
So everything here in chat by deleting the entire chat collection.
Everything in chats by deleting this collection.
And everything in users by deleting this collection.
And of course, that means we'll also delete all users here under authentication.
And I'm simply doing this to start from scratch.
Now that we added all those core functionalities when it comes to creating users, and I also then want
to test this on iOS on a real iOS device before we thereafter continue to show the image preview and
then all the work on the push notifications.